**Dual Core MIPS CPU**

In this project, we designed and developed a Simplified MIPS CPU that is capable of running assembly programs and displaying them on an FPGA board. The main components of the CPU are the controller and datapath, and it communicates with an external memory and a general purpose input/output (GPIO) memory. We began by writing the register file by writing seven 8-bit registers. Then, we designed the arithmetic logic unit and the multiplexers based on the datapath block diagram. We proceeded to wire the regfile, ALU, and multiplexers together based on the datapath block diagram to complete the datapath. The design of our controller was a finite state machine that outputs control signals to guide the flow of data within the processor. It had FETCH, DECODE, EXECUTE, and WRITEBACK states for different types of instructions and the current state would update at each clock cycle. Each state would set the proper output signals to the datapath and tell the controller which state to visit next. The controller and datapath were wired together in the mips module, which was essentially the processor. Next, we defined the external memory and GPIO memory, which were just arrays of 512 8-bit words. The GPIO memory was mapped to the switches, buttons, leds, and 7-segment display in the lab display module, which allowed for viewing program outputs on the FPGA board. In order to test our CPU, we wrote numerous testbenches that put different programs into the external memory and viewed the output waveforms to verify full functionality. After testing, we obtained a fully operable MIPS CPU that could run programs such as a Fibonacci calculator and a Gaussian sum calculator and display the outputs on the FPGA board display based on user inputs from the switches. 
